###Third Intifada
For today's young generation of Palestinians, social media such as Twitter and Facebook has became in integral part of resistance against the Israeli occupation. Unlike their older counterparts, today's Palestinian youth have access to online tools that allow them to show the outside world what is happening, often in real time. During the First and Second Intifada’s, access to the Internet and social media was difficult at best, and there was no platform for Palestinians to tell their own stories. A year after the Second Intifada ended, Twitter officially launched, and since then, the number of users living in Gaza, the West Bank and the Occupied Territories has grown massively.
In early October of 2015, months of heightened tensions between Israelis and Palestinians broke. A wave of violence hit Jerusalem, and things took a turn for the worse after Israeli military police disbanded a protest against the occupation. Attacks carried out by both sides were heavily reported on social media, especially Twitter. The recent wave of violence prompted many to title this new period of unrest as "The Third Intifada." Within hours, the use of #ThirdIntifada exploded across Twitter in mid October.
###Using Twitter to Track Regional Developments and Trends
In early October, I began monitoring the daily situation in Israel/Palestine using a variety of methods. Aside from major news outlets such as The New York Times and the Guardian, I soon discovered that the best way to get the most reliable on the ground information was through Twitter. As I delved further, I noticed the #ThirdIntifada being used to report daily unrest throughout the region. Using CartoDB's Twitter plugin, I was able to track the use of the #ThirdIntifada.  I collected data all the way back to 2007, when the first uses of #ThirdIntifada appeared online.  I soon was able to see a slow building of Tweets referencing the Third Intifada, coming not only from within Israel and Palestine, but from all over the world as well.  In early 2014, tensions between Israel and Palestine rose, and the use of the #ThirdIntifada became really noticeable.  In early 2015, the use of the term really explodes, and tweets pour in as far away as Indonesia and South America.   
The interactive can be seen [here.](http://bl.ocks.org/anonymous/raw/94b461e460e88cf4415f/#) 
The project webpage can be viewed [here.](http://joshzimber.github.io/third-intifada)

